This repository is focused around the TeX typesetting engine.  Therefore it mainly contains some plain old ".tex" files in the folder userpackages.


Installation & Usage:

    In addition there is a PKGBUILD file which can be used to creatte a tar.gz package which can be installed by pacman under Arch-linux.
    For those unformilliar, you can create the package by running

        $ makepkg

    in the folder containing the PKGBUILD.
    The resulting package "texperiment*.tar.gz" can then be installed using

        $ pacman -U texperiment*.tar.gz

    This will install the packages into your tex-live installation so you can simply by "\input"ing them. It also creates a format which can be loaded by the TeX compiler to have all pacages available at once.

        $ tex -fmt=atexperiment(.fmt) filename.tex

    Take note, that this doesn't work using diffrent TeX compilers like pdftex or latex. If this presents an issue you can run

        $ dvipdf filename.dvi

    to create a pdf file or make your own adjustments to the tex-live installation.
    The package also creates a custom shell script so you can run TeX with the format preloaded more easily

        $ atex filename

    yields the same result as manually loading the format file atexperiment.fmt.


Documentation:

    All of the TeX packages are documented even if not visible on first glance. "It’s safely buried where no one will ever stumble upon it ---hopefully, including myself!"

    If you want to obtain a packages documentation it is as simple as calling the TeX compiler on it.  In reality it is not quite as simple as made out to be however.
    The TeX compiler first needs access to the required packages.    This includes the package which's documentation you desire as well as the package used to document it.
    This is coincidentally on of the packages in this repository and can thus be installed via pacman using the PKGBUILD.
    If this is not possible as you are not running Arch-linux for some bizare reaseon or you simply don't want to install all the bloat, feel free to take and install just what you want.
    Yo should however keep in mind that many of the packages are codependent.

    If the installation of the required packages was successfull the aquirement of a packages documentation is as simple as running

        $ tex packagename.tex

    miraculously generating the packages documentation wherever you are.  If you are interested in more details the author suggests looking at the documentation of the package documentation.tex


Custom installation:

    To install userpackages into a tex-live installation you first need to move them to the correct folder.  This folder can be located using the command

        $ kpsewhich -var-value=TEXMFDIST

    which is the texmf-dist distribution's path for TeX and METAFONT. There you should choose the path tex/generic.  The author suggests following this by /texperiment for easy relocation of the packages.
    Once you have coppied the desired files you need to tell TeX about the changes you made. This is done by running

        $ mktexlsr "the/path"/texmf-dist

    If you aren't using all packes make sure you don't leave out any dependencies.
    If you want to create a format file you can do this by first creating a file formatname.tex, in which you "\input" all the desired packages and then running

        $ initex formatname.tex

    thus creating formatname.fmt.  To install this package it needs to be moved to the correct path again in this case texmf-dist/web2c/tex/formatname.fmt.  Remember apply changes using

        $ mktexlsr "the/path"/texmf-dist

    Creating a "custom compiler" script is as easy as creating the correctly named file in /usr/binand adding two lines of code.

        #!/bin/bash
	tex -fmt=atexperiment "$@"

    Finally make the script executable

        $ changemod +x

    and you are caught up to the PKGBUILD.